 Sure, I can help you label the topics and extract key information from the text you provided. Here's my analysis:

1. Abstract:
The Wadeable National River and Stream Assessments (NRSA) protocol is a probability-based survey aimed at generating statistically valid reports on the condition of the Nation's water resources, including rivers, streams, coastal waters, lakes, and wetlands. The protocol seeks to evaluate changes in condition over time, build State and Tribal capacity for monitoring and assessment, and promote collaboration across jurisdictional boundaries.
2. Values, Statements, and Outcomes:
Values: protecting and preserving the nation's water resources
Problem Statement: lack of statistically valid data on the condition of the Nation's water resources
Desired outcomes: generate valid reports, identify key stressors to the systems, promote collaboration
3. Description:
The NRSA protocol is based on methods from the National Rivers and Streams Assessment 2018/19 Field Operations Manual Wadeable Version 1.2 and the National Rivers and Streams Assessment 2018/19 Laboratory Operations Manual. The protocol includes field methods and daily operations for crews conducting the assessments. The assessments will focus on different water systems in a revolving sequence, with the goal of generating valid reports on their condition.
4. Objectives:
Objective: to conduct probability-based surveys of the Nation's rivers and streams
Summary of Solution Coverage: the objective covers the entire problem statement by providing a solution for generating valid reports on the condition of the Nation's water resources.
Keywords: probability-based survey, valid reports, water resources
5. Target:
Primary focus: conducting surveys of the Nation's rivers and streams
6. Constraints:
The protocol requires partnership between states, tribes, the U.S. EPA, and other partners to conduct the assessments. The assessments will be conducted in a revolving sequence, focusing on different water systems at different times.