 1. Keywords: Object-based image analysis, image segmentation, high-resolution imagery, land cover classification, Random Forests, supervised classification.
2. Abstract: This method describes a technique for land cover classification using object-based image analysis (OBIA) and Random Forests, an ensemble learning method involving multiple decision trees. OBIA involves dividing images into non-overlapping, multi-pixel objects that are relatively homogeneous, allowing practitioners to incorporate size, shape, and spatial relationships of objects into the classification process. This supervised classification approach requires user-provided training data to improve the algorithms ability to classify segments correctly into predetermined land cover classes. The method utilizes several software packages including ORFEO toolbox, QGIS2.x, ArcGIS 10.x, and R.
3. Description: Land cover classification using OBIA involves two main steps: image segmentation and attribution of ancillary data to object segments. Image segmentation divides an image into non-overlapping, multi-pixel objects that are relatively homogeneous, with the aim of creating objects that correspond to elements of interest in the image. Ancillary spatial data, such as elevation and slope, are then calculated and attributed to each object. Once images have been segmented and object segments attributed with ancillary data, there are various ways to classify object segments into land cover classes. This method utilizes Random Forests, a supervised classification approach that requires user-provided training data to improve the algorithms ability to classify segments correctly into predetermined land cover classes. The method assumes that the user has already acquired high-resolution aerial imagery and determined the type and number of classes they wish to use for a land cover classification, as well as collected any relevant data for training the classification algorithm.
4. Target: Land cover classification using object-based image analysis and supervised Random Forests classification models.
5. Constraints: This method assumes that the user has already obtained copies of the required software packages and knows how to use them, acquired high-resolution aerial imagery, determined the type and number of classes for the land cover classification, and collected any relevant data for training the classification algorithm.