 1. Keywords: Steelhead conservation, hatcheries, integrated broodstock, artificial production, monitoring.

2. Abstract: The use of hatcheries is a critical tool for the recovery and conservation of steelhead and salmon in the Pacific Northwest. However, traditional hatchery practices and management policies have not clearly demonstrated the conservation benefit due to lack of proper monitoring and inconsistent management. This method proposes the use of an integrated broodstock of native-origin (NOR) and hatchery-origin (HOR) steelhead in a conservation hatchery, with artificial production methods designed to minimize the effects of hatchery domestication. The number of fish is closely monitored throughout the rearing process, with accurate counts obtained during marking/tagging and at smolt release. This method aims to contribute to the recovery of a small steelhead population by following specific protocols for rearing and monitoring.

3. Description: The use of hatcheries for the conservation of steelhead and salmon in the Pacific Northwest has been considered a critical tool, but traditional hatchery practices and management policies have not clearly demonstrated the conservation benefit. This is due to pervasive use of traditional hatchery practices, management policies that ignore conservation concerns, and nonexistent or inconsistent monitoring. To address this issue, protocols appropriate for rearing an integrated broodstock of native-origin (NOR) and hatchery-origin (HOR) steelhead in a conservation hatchery are developed and followed. Rearing protocols are designed to minimize effects of hatchery domestication and artificially produced (HOR) smolts are released each spring during the period when most NOR smolts emigrate. The number of fish within the hatchery is tracked throughout rearing, with accurate estimates for feeding and release protocols obtained through regular counts. A complete count of all fish in the program is typically obtained during the mass marking process prior to release. After marking/tagging, all mortalities found in the raceways are hand counted and subtracted from the total inventory each day. Therefore, at smolt release, there is a very accurate count on the number of smolts.

4. Target: The primary focus or goal of this method is to use artificial production to contribute to the recovery of a small steelhead population while minimizing the effects of hatchery domestication.
5. Constraints: The constraints for this method include the need for regular monitoring and accurate counts of the number of fish in the hatchery, as well as the need for management policies that prioritize conservation concerns. Additionally, the success of this method is dependent on the implementation of specific rearing protocols designed to minimize the effects of hatchery domestication.