 1. Keywords: Steelhead, Reproductive status assessment, Spermatogenesis, Morphological parameters, Endocrine parameters
2. Abstract: This method outlines the importance of assessing the reproductive status of age 1 or 2 male steelheads prior to their release from hatcheries. The objective is to estimate the proportion of males that may residualize due to being mature precocious parr or having initiated maturation for spawning a year after release. This assessment is crucial as external examination can only identify precious parr, and not males in the earliest stages of initiating maturation (spermatogenesis). The method proposes quantifying a series of morphological and endocrine parameters to estimate proportions of one and two-year-old male steelheads that are initiating maturation for the following year. These measurements are taken on lethal subsamples of fish, just prior to release from the hatchery in the spring.
3. Description: The text describes a method for assessing the reproductive status of age 1 or 2 male steelheads before releasing them from hatcheries. Previous studies have shown that steelhead residuals are a mixture of fish that failed to migrate due to not smolting or being maturing males. The goal is to estimate the proportion of males that may residualize because they are either mature (running) precocious parr or have initiated maturation for spawning a year after release. In summer-run steelhead, adults migrate to natal rivers in the summer, reside over winter and spawn the subsequent spring, indicating that initiation of maturation and the spawning migration must occur roughly a year before the fish will spawn. Identification of precious parr can be done through external examination, but males in the earliest stages of initiating maturation (spermatogenesis) show no unique external characteristics. Therefore, a set of morphological and endocrine parameters have been developed to estimate proportions of one and two-year-old male steelheads that are initiating maturation for the following year. These measurements are taken on lethal subsamples of fish, just prior to release from the hatchery in the spring. The selection of parameters is based on information about how the reproductive endocrine axis regulates the onset of spermatogenesis, including hormones and growth factors produced by the brain, pituitary gland, and testis. External (e.g., photoperiod, temperature) and internal (e.g., metabolic) cues play important roles in regulating the production of brain gonadotropin-releasing hormone, which in turn stimulates the production and secretion of gonadotropins (follicle-stimulating hormone; FSH, luteinizing hormone, LH) that regulate testicular production of androgens (11-ketotestosterone; 11-KT) and growth factors (antimullerian hormone; AMH and insulin-like growth factor 3; IGF3). The activation of the pituitary-testis axis during puberty onset in fish involves increases in synthesis of alpha and beta subunits of FSH and LH (mRNA and protein), increases in plasma levels of FSH and 11-KT, and increases in testis IGF3 mRNA and decreases in AMH mRNA in the testis. At the level of the testis, the first cellular indication of onset of spermatogenesis is the rapid proliferation of spermatogonia, which precedes the meiotic divisions of germ cells and development of haploid spermatozoa. The rapid proliferation of germ cells results in small increases in gonadosomatic index (GSI) and cytological changes in germ cells that are observable in histological sections of the testis. Relative levels of mRNAs for pituitary FSH and LH beta subunits, and testicular IGF3 and AMH, are measured from total RNA using quantitative real-time RT PCR (qPCR).
4. Target: The primary focus or goal of the method is to estimate the proportion of male steelheads that may residualize due to being mature precocious parr or having initiated maturation for spawning a year after release.
5. Constraints: The constraints for this current method include the inability to externally distinguish males in the earliest stages of initiating maturation (spermatogenesis) and the need for lethal sampling to measure morphological and endocrine parameters.